---
id: v4.0
title: Version 4.0
sidebar_position: 998
---

## Breaking Changes

A [recent update to Sonarr v4][commit] changed the way Quality Definitions work. Recyclarr was not
prepared for this change. As such, an immediate breaking change is released that fixes the issue but
requires user intervention.

:::info

Radarr was not impacted by this change. User intervention is only required for Sonarr instances (all
versions).

:::

[commit]: https://github.com/Sonarr/Sonarr/commit/d08f33ae213bb5a94b6b6aa8f6f1e780a7a9835f

### Quality Definitions

Radarr's syntax for quality definitions is now used consistently between Radarr and Sonarr instances
of all versions. Previously, the syntax for Sonarr was as follows:

```yml
quality_definition: series
```

Starting with v4.0, you must convert this style to the same one that Radarr uses:

```yml
quality_definition:
  type: series
```

:::tip

The `preferred_ratio` property is also supported, just like in Radarr. Note, however, that this
property does nothing on Sonarr v3 instances because it does not have a preferred quality size
setting.

:::

### Preferred Ratio

The behavior of `preferred_ratio` has changed. The default is no longer `1.0`. Instead, the default
behavior is to take the preferred values from [the guide][sizejson]. The default behavior is used if
the `preferred_ratio` property is *not* specified.

[sizejson]: https://github.com/TRaSH-/Guides/tree/master/docs/json/sonarr/quality-size

### Hybrid Quality Definition

The `hybrid` quality definition has been removed and is no longer supported. This was always a bit
of a hack to support Sonarr instances that handle both anime and series. Going forward, however,
this should become an official part of the guide if it is desired.

:::info

At the time v4.0 was released, there is not a suitable replacement for `hybrid`. Keep an eye on [the
guide][guide] for updates or [request it][request].

[guide]: https://trash-guides.info/Sonarr/Sonarr-Quality-Settings-File-Size/
[request]: https://github.com/TRaSH-/Guides/issues

:::
