---
title: Version 7.0 (Unreleased)
sidebar_position: 995
---

:::info

Version 7 has not been released yet.

:::

## Breaking Changes

Features have been removed *or* behavior changed. Most of the items here would have been deprecated
in the past. Deprecations are always mentioned in release notes for minor version bumps.

### Path Change on MacOS {#osx-path-change}

:::caution

If you are not running Recyclarr on MacOS, **no action is needed!**

:::

The [app data directory](../file-structure.md#appdata-directory) path has changed for only the MacOS
platform. This is due to a [breaking change][net8] introduced in .NET 8.

In Recyclarr v6 and earlier, the path to the app data directory is:

```sh
~/.config/recyclarr
```

Starting in v7, the new path is located at:

```sh
~/Library/Application Support/recyclarr
```

There is a required [migration step][mig] that will inform you if the data directory should be
moved. Use the [`recyclarr migrate`][cmd] command to have Recyclarr attempt to move the directory
for you.

[net8]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/compatibility/core-libraries/8.0/getfolderpath-unix
[mig]: ../behavior/migration-system.md
[cmd]: ../cli/migrate.md

### Removed Sonarr v3 Support

With this release, Sonarr version 3 support has been completely dropped. The most impactful aspect
of this is the removal of Release Profile syncing. If you're already running Sonarr v4, then there
should be no action required. For those still using Sonarr v3, you have two options:

#### Option 1: Stay on Recyclarr v6.0

If you prefer to stay on Sonarr version 3.0, then you should not upgrade to this release of
Recyclarr. For now, stay on the latest release of Recyclarr v6.0. It is recommended that you
eventually upgrade your instances of Sonarr, however, so that you can continue using the latest
release of Recyclarr. Older versions of Recyclarr stop working once there are breaking changes in
the Trash Guides.

#### Option 2: Upgrade your instances of Sonarr

1. Upgrade your v3 instance(s) of Sonarr to v4.0 or higher. **It is <ins>your</ins> responsibility
   to follow proper upgrade procedure** (e.g. do proper backups), as this is outside the scope of
   Recyclarr itself.

1. Go through all of your configuration YAML files and replace usage of `release_profiles` with
   `custom_formats`. See the [Configuration Reference][ref] page for details. With Sonarr v4, you
   will also have access to Sonarr configuration templates. You may decide to replace your
   hand-written Sonarr v3 configuration with a pre-made template instead. See the [`config
   create`][config_create] command for details on how to list available templates and create them.

[ref]: /yaml/config-reference/index.md
[config_create]: ../cli/config/config-create.md#template

## Deprecations

These features still work, but they will stop working in a future release.

### Dedicated Includes Directory {#include-dir}

The root directory for relative local include paths has changed. Previously, relative paths provided
to the [`config` include directive](../yaml/config-reference/include.md#config) were rooted in
`${appdatadir}/configs`. Putting includes in the `configs` directory is now deprecated. Going
forward, all includes should reside in `${appdatadir}/includes`.

Migrating to the new directory is simple. Simply cut & paste any subdirectories containing include
template YAML files to the new `includes` subdirectory. Assume you have the current structure:

```txt
.
├── configs/
│   ├── config1.yml
│   ├── config2.yml
│   └── local/
│       ├── my-include1.yml
│       └── my-include2.yml
└── includes/
```

An empty top-level `includes` will be created for you by Recyclarr. In the example above, we need to
move the `local` directory to this top-level `includes` directory. The final structure should look
like this:

```txt
.
├── configs/
│   ├── config1.yml
│   └── config2.yml
└── includes/
    └── local/
        ├── my-include1.yml
        └── my-include2.yml
```

By doing this, the relative paths in your `templates` section does not need to change:

```yml
include:
  - config: local/my-include1.yml
  - config: local/my-include2.yml
```

#### Recommended File Structure Changes (Optional) {#rec-structure-change}

If you followed the recommended file structure for your includes, then chances are you already have
a `configs/include` directory. To avoid having the path look weird, such as
`includes/include/my-include1.yml`, it is recommended that you remove the intermediate `include`
directory or rename it. For example, you could change this:

```yml
include:
  - config: include/my-include1.yml
  - config: include/my-include2.yml
```

To:

```yml
include:
  - config: my-include1.yml
  - config: my-include2.yml
```

And have your filesystem change from:

```txt
.
├── configs/
│   ├── config1.yml
│   └── config2.yml
└── includes/
    └── include/
        ├── my-include1.yml
        └── my-include2.yml
```

To this:

```txt
.
├── configs/
│   ├── config1.yml
│   └── config2.yml
└── includes/
    ├── my-include1.yml
    └── my-include2.yml
```
