---
title: Version 8.0 (Unreleased)
sidebar_position: 994
---

:::info

Version 8 has not been released yet.

:::

Features have been removed *or* behavior changed. Most of the items here would have been deprecated
in the past. Deprecations are always mentioned in release notes for feature releases.

## Dedicated Includes Directory {#include-dir}

The root directory for relative local include paths has changed. Previously, relative paths provided
to the [`config` include directive](../yaml/config-reference/include.md#config) were rooted in
`${appdatadir}/configs`. Putting includes in the `configs` directory is no longer supported. Going
forward, all includes should reside in `${appdatadir}/includes`.

Migrating to the new directory is simple. Simply cut & paste any subdirectories containing include
template YAML files to the new `includes` subdirectory. Assume you have the current structure:

```txt
.
├── configs/
│   ├── config1.yml
│   ├── config2.yml
│   └── local/
│       ├── my-include1.yml
│       └── my-include2.yml
└── includes/
```

An empty top-level `includes` will be created for you by Recyclarr. In the example above, we need to
move the `local` directory to this top-level `includes` directory. The final structure should look
like this:

```txt
.
├── configs/
│   ├── config1.yml
│   └── config2.yml
└── includes/
    └── local/
        ├── my-include1.yml
        └── my-include2.yml
```

By doing this, the relative paths in your `templates` section does not need to change:

```yml
include:
  - config: local/my-include1.yml
  - config: local/my-include2.yml
```

### Recommended File Structure Changes (Optional) {#rec-structure-change}

If you followed the recommended file structure for your includes, then chances are you already have
a `configs/include` directory. To avoid having the path look weird, such as
`includes/include/my-include1.yml`, it is recommended that you remove the intermediate `include`
directory or rename it. For example, you could change this:

```yml
include:
  - config: include/my-include1.yml
  - config: include/my-include2.yml
```

To:

```yml
include:
  - config: my-include1.yml
  - config: my-include2.yml
```

And have your filesystem change from:

```txt
.
├── configs/
│   ├── config1.yml
│   └── config2.yml
└── includes/
    └── include/
        ├── my-include1.yml
        └── my-include2.yml
```

To this:

```txt
.
├── configs/
│   ├── config1.yml
│   └── config2.yml
└── includes/
    ├── my-include1.yml
    └── my-include2.yml
```
