---
id: settings-reference
title: Settings
sidebar_position: 5
---

Settings are specified in a file named `settings.yml` in your [app data directory][app-data].
Settings in this file affect the behavior of Recyclarr regardless of instance-specific configuration
for Radarr and Sonarr.

Example of file location (using docker path):

```txt
/config/settings.yml
```

If this file does not exist, Recyclarr will create it for you. Starting out, this file will be empty
and default behavior will be used.

:::caution

There is absolutely no need to touch this file unless you have a specific reason to. It is
recommended that you only add the specific properties for the customizations you need and leave the
rest alone.

:::

[app-data]: /file-structure.md#appdata-directory

## Schema Validation {#schema}

Visit the [Schema Validation](/schema-validation.md) page for detailed instructions.

Add this comment to the top of your YAML file:

```yml
# yaml-language-server: $schema=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/recyclarr/recyclarr/master/schemas/settings-schema.json
```

## Global Settings

```yml
enable_ssl_certificate_validation: true
git_path: /usr/local/bin/git
```

- `enable_ssl_certificate_validation` *(Default: `true`)*<br/>
  If set to `false`, SSL certificates are not validated. This is useful if you are connecting to a
  Sonarr or Radarr instance using `https` and it is set up with self-signed certificates. Note that
  disabling this setting is a **security risk** and should be avoided unless you are absolutely sure
  what you are doing.

- `git_path` *(Default: Search on `PATH`)*<br/>

  Provide an explicit path to your `git` executable. Note that this is a path to the actual
  executable itself and not a directory path. If this setting is not specified, Recyclarr will
  attempt to find `git` via your `PATH` environment variable.

## Repository Settings {#repo-settings}

:::danger

Never edit files in the locally cloned git repositories managed by Recyclarr! Local changes in these
repositories will be destroyed!

:::

```yml
repositories:
  trash_guides:
      clone_url: https://github.com/TRaSH-/Guides.git
      branch: master
      sha1:
  config_templates:
      clone_url: https://github.com/recyclarr/config-templates.git
      branch: master
      sha1:
```

### Supported Repositories

The `repositories` section contains a list of repositories to configure. Each repository *has the
same exact properties*, which are documented below. For example, `clone_url` is a valid property for
both `trash_guides`, `config_templates`, and any future repositories that may get added here.

List of supported repositories is below.

- [Trash Guides][trash_repo]: Contains the data synced to your Sonarr/Radarr instances.
- [Config Templates][template_repo]: Contains pre-made configuration YAML files used by the
  `recyclarr config` command.

[trash_repo]: https://github.com/TRaSH-/Guides
[template_repo]: https://github.com/recyclarr/config-templates

### Per-Repository Properties

Default values *may be different* between different repositories for the same property. The example
YAML code block above shows the default values for corresponding properties documented below.

- `clone_url`<br/>
  A URL compatible with `git clone` that is used to clone the respective repository (listed above).
  This setting exists for enthusiasts that may want to instead have Recyclarr pull data from a fork
  instead of the official repository.

- `branch`<br/>
  The name of a branch to check out in the repository.

- `sha1`<br/>
  A SHA1 (commit hash) in Git to use (e.g. `c611e9df00bf9261bddfc749219295fe189ae552`). If
  specified, it overrides the `branch` setting. This SHA1 is passed to `git reset --hard` to force
  your local clone to this specific revision in the repository. If not specified, only the `branch`
  controls what revision is used in the repo.

## Log Janitor Settings

The log janitor is responsible for cleaning up logs generated by Recyclarr each time a command is
executed. These settings allow the user to alter the default cleanup behavior. For example, you may
want logs to be cleaned up sooner or keep log files around longer.

```yml
log_janitor:
  max_files: 20
```

- `max_files` *(Default: `20`)*<br/>
  The maximum number of log files to keep. If there are more log files than the max allowed here,
  Log Janitor will remove the oldest log files.
